C.K. Daphtary, Solicitor General of India, Naushir Barucha and K. R. Choudhuri, for the respondent.
On September 11, 1942, the appellants had executed a rent note, under which they were in occupation of the premises in dispute.
The period of the tenancy was 15 years, and it expired by efflux of time on, March 14, 1957.
Meanwhile, under section 6 of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947, (to be called the Act, in this judgment), a notification was issued, applying Part II of the Act to the area where the property is situated.
By section 50 of the Act, these Acts were repealed.
Part II came to be extended to this area by the notification, and after that extension, Parts 1, 11 and IV of the Act began to apply, while the suit was pending.
The proviso which has been added to section 50 of the Act deals with the effect of repeal.
The proviso here saves pending suits and proceedings, and further enacts that suits and proceedings then pending are to be transferred to the Courts designated in the Act and are to continue under the Act and any or all the provisions of the Act are to apply to them.
These arguments are interesting, and much can be said on both Bides, particularly as the Legislature has by a subsequent amendment changed the proviso.
But, in our opinion, they need not be considered in this case, in view of what we have decided on the second point.
Both the Bombay High Court and this Court had, on the previous occasions, observed that section 12 of the Act was prospective.
In those cases, the learned Judges were concerned with the interpretation of sub sections (2) and (3) only, which, as the words of those subsections then existing show, were clearly prospective, and were applicable to suits to be instituted after the coming into force of the Act.
While it is the ordinary rule that substantive rights should not be held to be taken away except by express provision or clear implication, many Acts, though prospective in form, 168 have been given retrospective operation, if the intention of the legislature is apparent.
This is more so, when Acts are passed to protect the public against some evil or abuse.
(See Craies on Statute Law, 5th Edn., p. 365).
Both the High Court as well as this Court in their previous decisions, referred to above, were not called upon to interpret sub section (1) of the Act.
They were dealing with appeals arising out of decrees already passed.
In the result, the appeal is allowed, and the two preliminary Issues are answered in favour of the appellants.
Under the orders of this Court, the judgment of the Civil Judge was stayed.
163 (2)No suit for recovery of possession shall be instituted by a landlord against a tenant on the ground of non payment of the standard rent or permitted increases due, until the expiration of one month next after notice in writing of the demand of the standard rent or permitted increases has been served upon the tenant in the manner provided in section 106 of the .
It is contended by the learned Attorney General what the construction placed by the High Court upon the first proviso to section 50 is erroneous.
The High Court, however, ruled that section 12 was prospective in character and did not apply to pending suits or proceedings.
It was observed by Wood, V. C., in Fitzgerald vs Champneys(2) that saving clauses are seldom used to construe Acts.
The respondent shall pay the costs of this Court and of the High Court.
