In pursuance of this agreement the vendors applied to the Deputy Commissioner, Akola, on August 12, 1943, for diver sion under section 58 of the Code and sanction was accorded on January 22, 1944, subject to payment of premium of Rs. 9,222 and other conditions.
It was also alleged that the price was not fixed in good faith.
Both the trial court and the District Judge held that respondent Sridhar was entitled to preempt and determined the fair consideration to be Rs. 3,306.
The first question for decision is whether a right of pre emption had accrued to respondent Sridbar under the provisions of the Code.
Under a. 183 every occupant in Survey number shall have the right to pre empt the interest transferred by civil suit.
The conclusion is, that you are to look at the intention of the parties in determining what system of law was to be taken as applying and what was to be taken to be (1) All. 344.(2) (1921) 48 I.A. 475.255 the date of the sale with reference to which the ceremonies were performed "
There are no equities in favour of a pre emptor, whose sole object is to disturb a valid transaction by virtue of the rights created in him by statute.
It was then submitted that the sale deed had as a matter of fact, been executed on February 1, 1944; but respondent Sridhar brought the suit not on the cause of action arising on the sale dated February 1, 1944, but on the transaction of April 10, 1943, coupled with that of April 24, 1943, which being mere contracts of sale created no interest in the vendee and there was no right of pre emption in respondent No. I which could be enforced under the Code.
The defence in regard to the conversion of the land from agricultural into non agricultural site which negatives the right of pre emption would then have become a very important issue in the case and the appellant would have adduced proper proof in regard to it.
In the Berar Settlement Rules and Berar Sub tenancy Rules of 1866 the right of pre emption attached to relinquishment of shares in the case of ryots of joint holdings and applied to co sharers and this is different from the rule of Mohammedan law.
It was held by the Privy Council in Immudipattam Thirugnana section O. Kondema Naik vs Peria Dorasami (3) which was a case of a zamindari estate that it could not be transferred except by a registered instrument.
In this very case, supposing the so called vendor, notwithstanding the application of the 15th August, 1882 (which cannot amount to an estoppel under the circumstances) continues or recenters into possession of the property it is clear that the so called vendee would have no, title under the so alled sale, to enable him to recover possession the transaction being, by reason of section 54 of the Transfer of Property Act, ineffectual as transfer of ownership.
But it was argued for the respondents that the Privy Council had not only approved the observation of Sir John Edge, C. J., in Begum vs Mohammad Yakub(1) but has also approved the view of the Calcutta High Court in Jadu Lal Sahu vs Janki Koer (2).
In our opinion the judgment of the High Court was erroneous and we would therefore allow this appeal, set aside the judgment and decree of the High Court and dismiss the suit with costs throughout.