Appeal No. 101 of 1959. 17 R/55 of 1955. 1. N.S. March 15. The appellants who are admittedly displaced persons from West Pakistan were granted quasi permanent allotment of 24 standard acres and 15 3/4 units in the village of Raikot in Ludhiana District in 1949. Their father Sardar Nand Singh who was 42 330 found entitled to quasi permanent allotment of 40 standard acres and 5 1/4 units of land was given quasipermanent allotment in another village named Humbran in the same district. These fourteen allottees preferred an application for review of the order cancelling their allotment on the ground that this cancellation was a result of misapprehension of the actual facts and that they were not entitled to allotment of suburban lands at all. and allotment of which had been cancelled earlier. It is common ground that by notification section R. 0. 1957 Punj. No doubt, under section 10 of the the Custodian is empowered to manage evacuee property and in exercise of his power he will be competent to allot such property to any person or to cancel an allotment or lease made in favour of a person. It is true that there, is nothing on record to show that a managing officer was appointed with respect to the Raikot properties acquired under the notification dated March 24, 1955. But it is not necessary to ascertain that fact. Section 10 says that only a managing officer or a managing corporation can do so. This means that no one else can do so even though some other law may have authorised another person or authority to cancel an allotment. Section 10 runs as follows: 335 "Special procedure for payment of compensation in certain cases. It is followed by an explanation; but that explanation has no bearing upon the point urged by Mr. Achhruram. 336 Mr. Achhruram then referred to the "Conditions" on which allotments of land may be made under the notification referred to in sub section 10(a) and pointed out that under condition No. 6 the Custodian or rehabilitation authority would be competent to resume or cancel an allotment only on one of the grounds set out in that condition. That may or may not be so. It is true that had the appellants been in possession at the critical time they would have had the right to obtain a permanent transfer in their favour of the Raikot lands and by virtue of what happened and without any fault on their part they have been deprived 'of that right. That rule reads as follows: "Allotments which are the subject matter of dispute. No property in a rural area in respect of which any case is pending in a Civil Court or before a Deputy Custodian, Custodian or Custodian General, shall be transferred to the allottee". 337 The aforesaid rule is in Chapter X headed "Payment of compensation under section 10 of the Act" and deals with a transfer of property to an allottee by way of final settlement of his claim to compensation and does not deal with the question of allotment on a quasi permanent basis. There is, therefore, no substance in this argument. Section 17 deals with the function; and duties of managing officers and managing corporation. Sub section (1) provides that managing officers and managing corporations will perform such functions as may be assigned to them under the Act. etc. His contention appears to be that there is nothing to show that this property was "entrusted" to a managing officer. Therefore, even if no managing officer or managing corporation was appointed with respect to that property no one else could exercise the power of cancellation of allotment. He cannot, therefore, be permitted to make out a new case at this stage of argument. Again, this provision is a general provision and the particular provision regarding cancellation of allotment is section 19(1) of the Act which does not refer to entrustment at all and it is this provision which must prevail over the general provision. He then contends that the provisions of section 19(1) of the Act being subject to rules made under the Act must be read along with r. 102 which deals with cancellation of allotments of leases. What we have said in regard to section 17 would apply 339 here also. (d) of r. 102 permits the managing officer or managing corporation to cancel allotment "for any other sufficient reason to be recorded in writing". The only effect of r. 102 is to permit cancellation 'of an allotment for reasons stated. That is all. Appeal dismissed.